A film marathon is currently taking place.
Each movie has a duration of 1 and 3/4 hours.
If you want to watch 3 movies, how long will your marathon last?
You can use the number axis below to help you find the answer.
Each movie lasts for 1/3/4 hours.
Let's say the first movie ... Let's say the first movie
is "Star Wars",
which I would probably include in any movie marathon.
It will be a long hour and 3/4.
That is, let's see, this is 1 ... 1
and we'll have another 3/4.
So every element is 1/4,
because we have 4 parts between 1 and 2.
1, 2, 3, 4.
And we'll see 3/4.
1, 2, 3.
This is the length of the first movie.
And the second movie will be 1 and 3/4.
Thus, 1 is 4/4.
1, 2, 3, 4,
and then we will have another 3/4.
1, 2, 3
and as I said,
4/4 and 3/4 is 7/4.
A 1 and 3/4 is equivalent to 7/4,
here we see that
when they are colored 1 and 3/4 in blue,
actually I've scored 7/4.
It's the same here ... in red.
Let us now use green.
"Gandhi" is actually slightly longer than 1 and 3/4.
It's a nice movie.
I put it here because it's one of my favorites.
One more hour and 3/4 ...
Or we can imagine it as 4/4 plus 3/4 hours
or 7/4.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.
This here takes us to 5. And this point here is 5 and 1/4 hours.
Let's see if we've got the same. If we get the same result,
when we do it mathematically,
I suppose it is mathematical, so.
But each movie lasts for 1 and 3/4 hours.
We have already said that 1 and 3/4 equals 1 plus 3/4,
Equals are ... 1 is equal to 4/4.
Thus, 4/4 plus 3/4,
which is 7/4.
Another way to turn this mixed number into an irregular liver is, say,
Look, 4 by 1 is 4, so we get 4/4,
plus 3 is 7, 7/4.
Now we go to ... we go 7/4 of an hour three times.
So we will multiply 7/4 by 3.
There are several ways we can think about here.
We can treat it as three 7/4, collecting them.
7/4 plus 7/4 plus 7/4,
which will be equal to 21 on 4.
And if we want to make it a mixed number,
21/4 equals ...
Well 4 is contained in 20 without residue,
so this can be represented as 20/4 plus 1/4,
and 20/4 is equal to 5.
Here we have 5 and 1/4,
which is exactly what we saw here.
Another way is
let's say: 7/4, and then multiply it by 3/1.
To make it clear that we multiply numerators
and denominators.
In the numerator I will have 7 plus 7 plus 7 plus 7, 3,
and in denominator 4 by 1,
which is 4.
This is 7 by 3 on 4,
or 21/4, which
we already saw: it is 5 and 1/4.